{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Socially awesome
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 I started programming early autumn last year. I had been working as a community manager for 5 years and being an art school graduate, I missed 'making stuff'. The social yellow pages startup I worked for at the time allowed me to work closely together with the dev team. Not that that was all that easy. Although I was one of only 15 employees - and managing 5 of them being head of community management - the gap between marketing and communications and the developers seemed 'unbridgeable'. As some of the attendees might know, working for a startup means you have a lot of responsibilities. A coworker that used to do some recruitment in her days might take on HR next to her day job as a marketeer and the developer who had done quite some stuff for advertising agencies is in charge of all things design. Being interested in tech topics and able to pick up on slang relatively fast (a trick that came with my job) the developers quickly adopted me as a somewhat equal in their discussions. I quickly learned how to write bug reports in a way to avoid 'I can't reproduce this, therefor there is no bug'.\
This was around the time that our company adopted this theory of 'constant hackweek'. As a result our developers would be working on new awesome features - that I would then eagerly translate in to normal-human-language for our blog - rather than on fixing existing bugs. Now as a community manager you're dealing with the users of your service or product on a hourly basis. So I'd hear from my team what feature was lacking or was even throwing a huge error. As people associated me personally with the service I'd get somewhat angry direct messages urging to go and 'talk to the engineers'. Instead of doing that however, I decided to learn Ruby (on Rails), so I could fix them myself. Or at least go as far as figuring our what the problem could be and suggest a solution. Cute huh?\
I started with studying the Rails Girls guides and attempted to master the terminal and Git with a good friend and coworker. Having had experience with CSS, HTML and even a bit of PHP, learning Rails seemed to be not a too big of a deal. Defending why we're hosting Rails Girls events and not Python Girls or C++ Girls (other than that it just sounds wrong) my answer would always be that Rails is fairly easy to read and understand. Which is a great first step.\
In December I subscribed to this Ruby off Rails course, for I wanted to learn more about the language behind the framework. As of January I spend all my weekends in the local hackerspace rebuilding a guilt website for this online game Rift from scratch, together with another Ruby rookie, who attended DevBootcamp in SF. Our mentor is again an old colleague of mine, who devotes his FREE time teaching two quite stubborn newbies the ins and outs of his favorite programming language.\
I initiated Rails Girls Rotterdam and Rails Girls The Hague for reasons of 'giving back to the community', for I felt that the Rails community had really welcomed me. Without ever attending a Rails Girls event I found myself a great team of coaches, a location and sponsors to set up Rails Girls Rotterdam. The biggest moment of bliss must have been trying to get the girls to abandon their laptops for a bit, to grab some lunch. Which was somewhat of an impossible task. The day after the workshop we started setting up Rails Girls The Hague (to take place September 2013), to get even more girls in the Netherlands excited to learn programming. During the Rails Girls Rotterdam weekend, there were workshops in 2 different cities simultaneously, how cool is that?\
In my adoptive hometown I started co-organizing WordPress meetups and Ruby meetups (vienna.rb) to contribute to the local community of developers. It has been a very satisfying experience. I like meeting and connecting like-minded people and as far as the Ruby meetups concerned, I think it's a healthy thing for the attendees as well, to leave their desks or attics for once and meet peers and interesting companies and get to hear some great talks about how other people deal with the recent security issues in Rails, for example.\
What it comes down to is this (I think): back when I started learning I had this idea that combining my communicative skills with the ability to cook up something interesting in one or another programming language would be a killer combination and companies would hire me on the spot. Nowadays I'm mainly happy I went down this road because it allows me to help shape a community I'm so fortunate to be a part of. I would like to try and convince the attendees to do the same, without getting all touchy-feely about it.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 Audience Takeaway
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 Who ever said that developers are introvert and awkward when it comes to social interactions is only partly right. If my mentors, programmer friends and fellow Rails Girls coaches have taught me something, it has been the importance of giving back to the community.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\b\fs36 \cf0 How to survive family gatherings and birthday parties 
\fs30 2013
\fs36 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0\fs24 \cf0 How does one explain to their grandparents what they do for a living? Or a potential love interest? With my talk I want to cut the crap, move past jargon and offer handy comparisons even your granny will understand.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 Audience Takeaway
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 After this talk you can converse about your favorite nerd topics with total noobs without having to explain yourself all the time.\
}